---
date: 2020-03-16 12:26:40
layout: post
title: FEATURES & LABELS
subtitle: How to select the features and lables from the data!

series: A Beginner's Guide to AI in Bioinformatics with Python
series_sing: true
video_number: 4
description: Let's learn how we can define the features and the lables from our data.


optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/bioinformaticsguy/image/upload/c_scale,h_380/v1596696392/Machine%20Learning%20For%20Bioinformatics/MLINBINF-004.png

category: Machine Learning
tags:
  - Python
  - Machine Learning
  - Beginner
author: alihassan
paginate: true
---

{% include youtube_embed.html id="9wrU09vIbYE" %}

> Website is under developement written material will be added soon!

<!-- 
 hi guys
bye informatics guy here and welcome to
another video of the series machine
learning in Bantam Attucks in this video
we will be talking about defining the
features and the label so what are
features and what are labels so let me
try to explain it with an example from
your daily life if you ever get flu you
see that you have a running nose you
also get sore throat and sometimes your
temperature is also higher than the
normal body temperature these three are
the descriptive attributes so if you see
these three attributes you can easily
predict that you are going to get flu
really soon by the same token in the
data there are a few descriptive
attributes and there is one thing that
we are trying to predict so let's get
started it totally depends upon us but
we are what we want to predict
we can protect any column from this but
since we are doing the binary
classification we will choose a column
in which there are only two different
values and that is this class column so
the class is going to be the Labour
let's see what are going to be your
features so you can see that these nine
columns have different values and they
are defining the weather our class is
going to be benign or malignant so we
can simply choose these nine columns as
our features and the last column of
class as our labels let's start adding
our code taken and mostly works with the
numpy array so we have to import the
numpy library and if you have watched my
first video you already have installed
all the required libraries that are
needed for the series so import as NP
now in machine learning the features are
mostly represented by a capital X
capital X will be and P dot array and we
already know that in the features the
class label is not going to be included
so we have to drop the class level and
the axis is going to be one all right
let's print ax and see how it looks
Oh what is the problem Oh axis supposed
to be capital so this is our X it is not
going to make any sense because now it's
my array but we can see that the class
labor is not here next is we have to
define the labor in machine learning the
labels are mostly defined by the small Y
so Y is NP dot R a so we only have to
select the class column here we can
print Y and see how it looks so you can
see that these are all the ones and
zeros that are that are present in our
class so that's all for this video the
next video is going to be really
interesting in the next video we will be
training and testing the models so do
subscribe if you haven't already thank
you very much for watching and I will
see you around in the next video 

 -->
