---
date: 2020-04-06 12:26:40
layout: post
title: MAKING PREDICTIONS WITH TRAINED MODELS
subtitle: Time to see the the magic ball.

series: A Beginner's Guide to AI in Bioinformatics with Python
series_sing: true
video_number: 7
video_id: byKR2Os6sGw
description: Once we have trained out models it is time to get them to work to make some predictions.

optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/bioinformaticsguy/image/upload/c_scale,h_380/v1596696392/Machine%20Learning%20For%20Bioinformatics/MLINBINF-007.png

category: Machine Learning
tags:
  - Python
  - Machine Learning
  - Beginner
author: alihassan
paginate: true
---

{% include youtube_embed.html %}




> Website is under developement written material will be added soon!


 <!-- hi guys bye Anthony Skye here and
welcome to the last and very important
video of the whole series and in this
video we will be making predictions by
using the Train models so let's get
started first of all we have to define
our sample as a MPL II it should be an
umpire array so entry dot array arrays
are made by lists of lists so we have to
put two two square brackets and next we
have to define a list of nine different
numbers as we know that each of the
attribute was from one to ten and so we
can just randomly put values of the nine
columns from one to ten so let's make it
5 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 1 so our sample is ready
let's make the first protection and
making prediction is way too easy we can
call it result equals to loaded models
taught predict and then we have to give
it sample let's print our result oh we
got some errors oh the spelling of
protect our wrong p r e t ICT protect so
we got the result 0 so what is mean by 0
0 means that it is benign let's just do
one more thing and we can make we can
make a list of our classes and first
will be benign next one will be
malignant okay and we can print
it is benign so let's take a sample from
our data to see that it is really doing
the same thing let's take this three one
one one one two and one
and the result should be benign let's
take this second sample and use this
over here now we need to copy everything
over here I mean you to place our sum
let's just write name this sample - okay
and let's see what are the results it is
also benign now I am just thinking of
one more thing so let's open our excel
file again
over here you can see that this class is
benign and most of the values are closer
to one and this is a malignant class and
most of the values are closer to ten so
let's take another sample from that era
which has malignant class we can take
this eight and ten and okay we have to
do the same thing again this will be
sample three and we are changing the
sample over here sample three let's run
this and see what we get so the result
of this sample three is malignant now
why don't we do just one more thing now
as we have seen that if the values are
closer to ten then the result the result
is malignant so let's change these
values and make them closer to ten and
see what happens
so our first results should be benign
now so now you can see that after
changing the value so the first result
is also change to malignant so that's
all for this video and it is end of the
story's machine learning in
bioinformatics and thank you very much
for watching and I will see you around
in the next videos
[Music]  -->