---
date: 2020-06-29 12:26:40
layout: post
title: PYTHON FOR BIOINFORMATICS
subtitle: Series Intro.

series: PYTHON FOR BIOINFORMATICS
series_sing: true
video_number: 1
description: If you have never learned programing language and you are from the field of Biology. You can learn python with examples from the realm of Biology. 

optimized_image: https://res.cloudinary.com/bioinformaticsguy/image/upload/c_scale,h_380/v1596701389/002%20Python-for-Bioinformatics/Python-for-Bioinformatics-001.png


category: Python Basics
tags:
  - Python
  - Basics
  - Bioinformatics
author: alihassan
paginate: true
---

{% include youtube_embed.html id="iy9SETmplcU" %}

> Website is under developement written material will be added soon!


 <!-- how you doing guys by the meta sky here
and I am back with a brand new video
series so let me tell you this I'm not
gonna get in this outfit for the whole
series but this is just to tell you that
I am also from the field of Medical
Sciences and I know the difficulties and
the problems that biologists have to
face whenever they try to learn a new
programming language so if you are a
biologist and you want to learn a new
programming language you were at the
right place in this video we are going
to learn a new programming language now
this is a billion dollar question which
programming language they should learn
it's in human nature that we like to go
for the stuff which is hard and
attractive and everybody likes to talk
about that kind of stuff so let's try
Google Trends to find out who's hot
these days in programming languages
Google Trends let's start by searching
C++ since you might be watching the
video from any part of the world let's
change it to worldwide okay there is
this butter of compare let's compare
with the language
how about Java whoo there is a lot of
difference between Java and C++ and Java
is way more famous than C++ let's try
another language is even less popular
than Java let's try another language
how about Perl Oh
Perl is the least famous programming
language these days so let's try another
one and I think that this programming
language is gonna win and his name is
PYD too and python Oh
so you can see that python is on the top
of every other programming language you
can see this purple graph so now we know
who's hot these days the next question
that will arise in your mind is that
being about it is I don't have the
prerequisites of programming skills of
digital skills my math is terrible
and in the realm of biology you might
also think that I don't have those
programming geek genes but when I do so
this is a valid question and I have a
good news for you the good news is
Python is one of the most easiest
programming languages it's just like
writing something in English not only
this I will also be explaining
everything with the examples taken from
biological sciences so by the end of
this course you will be an expert in
Python and you will also be able to
implement this in biological sciences
all you need is a working machine and a
mindset to achieve this goal so what are
you waiting for let's install Python now
in order to install Python just search
python download click the first link if
you want install for windows click here
for linux click here for mac click here
and for other go there so i already have
a copy i'm gonna cancel it out and let's
pull that copy out to the desktop
alright so you will get an icon like
this double click it and click run so
now over here you just have to check
this part because this is very important
and it will come in handy in future we
can get away with the Install Now button
just click here so it's gonna take a
while I'm gonna speed it up this process
once installation is complete you will
see something like this click close
once it's installed go to the start and
search ID yeah
either you have to click here and this
is the Python interpreter it might not
look just like this in your computer but
it will look similar so let's try it our
first line of code prin hello to the
world of bioinformatics I hope my
spelling the correct and you just have
hit enter to print the statement and it
is printed yay so we have done this in
come
so let's say you don't have a computer
in hand and all you have is a mobile
phone or gaming console so so we have
another solution for you you all you
need is a Google Drive
go read Google Account go to your Google
Drive once it's loaded click this new
button and then go over here and the
more and then select this Google Cola
battery
it's gonna take some violent loading for
the very first time you can rename it
print hello
and you can write the same code over
here and it will work just as fine hello
to the world of bioinformatics and then
you have to click this button to run
this code it might take some time
because it has to allocate and connect
for the first time but once it's
connected its boom done in just a second
yay it is printed so now you can untie
porn on the go even on your mobile phone
it's that easy we will formally start
from the next video so subscribe to keep
an eye on the videos and that's all you
need to do so if you have any ideas
comments questions or concerns just let
me know in the comments down below thank
you very much for watching and I will
see you around in the next video
[Music] 


 -->
